#summary Tclkit downloads
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Downloads =

<table border="1">
<thead>
<tr><th>System</th><th colspan="2">GUI (with Tk)</th><th colspan="2">Command-line</th></tr>
<tr><th>Platform</th><th>8.4</th><th>8.5</th><th>8.4</th><th>8.5</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td colspan="5">*Windows*</td></tr>
<tr><td>ix86</td>
  <td><a href="http://tclkit.googlecode.com/files/tclkit-8.4.17-win32.upx.exe">8.4.17</a></td>
  <td><a href="http://tclkit.googlecode.com/files/tclkit-8.5.2-win32.upx.exe">8.5.2</a></td>
  <td><a href="http://tclkit.googlecode.com/files/tclkitsh-8.4.17-win32.upx.exe">8.4.17</a></td>
  <td><a href="http://tclkit.googlecode.com/files/tclkitsh-8.5.2-win32.upx.exe">8.5.2</a></td></tr>
<tr><td>amd64</td>
  <td>8.4.17</td>
  <td><a href="http://tclkit.googlecode.com/files/tclkit-8.5.2-win64.zip">8.5.2</a></td>
  <td>8.4.17</td>
  <td><a href="http://tclkit.googlecode.com/files/tclkitsh-8.5.2-win64.zip">8.5.2</a></td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="5">*Linux*</td></tr>
<tr><td>ARM</td><td>8.4.18</td><td>8.5.2</td></tr>
<tr><td>ix86</td><td>8.4.18</td><td>8.5.1</td></tr> 			
<tr><td>amd64</td><td>8.4.18</td><td>8.5.1</td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="5">*MacOS X*</td></tr>
<tr><td>Aqua (Univ)</td><td>8.4.18</td><td>8.5.1</td></tr>
<tr><td>X11 (Univ)</td><td>8.4.18</td><td>8.5.1</td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="5">*Solaris*</td></tr>
<tr><td>SPARC</td><td>8.4.17</td><td>8.5.1</td></tr>
<tr><td>x86 (32b)</td><td>8.4.13</td><td>8.5.1</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

*NOTE* There are many more binaries available for download than those highlighted above. This includes versions for NetBSD, FreeBSD, Linux-ARM and Linux-PPC and others contributed at various times. Try and search the downloads for anything you need. The only platforms supported by the tclkit maintainers regularly will be Windows, Linux-ix86 and MacOSX.

=Building from source=

See [BuildingTclkit]

=License=

The Tclkit-specific sources are license free, they just have a copyright. Hold the author(s) harmless and any lawful use is permitted.

This does not apply to any of the sources of the other major Open Source Software components used in Tclkit, which each have very liberal BSD/MIT-like licenses:

    !IncrTcl, Metakit, Tcl/Tk, TclVFS, Zlib 

=Acknowledgements=

The original release of Tclkit relied heavily on Matt Newman's Tcl implementation of VFS, a "Virtual File System" layer for Tcl. Since March 2002, Tclkit uses the next generation C implementation by Vince Darley, which has become part of the standard Tcl core. Both their contributions and feedback are hereby very gratefully acknowledged.

Over the past several years, Steve Landers has contributed greatly, most notably by telling the story of Tclkit (and Starkits, and Metakit, and Critcl) through numerous presentations at Tcl and Unix conferences around the world.

Telindustries in the US, Steve Blinkhorn in the UK, and after them an increasing number of users of Tclkit, have helped take Tclkit forward by putting it to the real test and using this in production environments.
Tclkit ports

Many thanks also to a growing team of people who have contributed builds of Tclkit for various platforms - it wouldn't be in all those places without their help:

    * Reinhard Max
    * Daniel Steffen
    * Steve Landers
    * Tom Krehbiel
    * Donal Fellows
    * Bob Techentin
    * Detlef Groth
    * George Peter Staplin
    * David Zolli
    * Paul Obermeier
    * Pat Thoyts
    * ... with apologies if I forgot anyone!